Run Line commands

As batch file is comprised of sequence of run line commands, hence it’s a must to
know at least few useful run line commands for constructing a good batch program. Here I am going to
list out the useful run line commands with a brief description.

Commands Descriptions
access.cpl Accessibility Controls
accwiz Accessibility Wizard
appwiz.cpl Add/Remove Programs
ciadv.msc Indexing Service
control admintools Administrative Tools
cleanmgr Disk Cleanup Utility
control color Display Properties
compmgmt.msc Computer Management Console
control folders Folder Options
cliconfg SQL Client Configuration
certmgr.msc Certificate Manager
charmap Character Map
chkdsk Check Disk Utility
clipbrd Clipboard Viewer
calc Opens calculator
cmd Opens command prompt
devmgmt.msc Device Manager
dfrg.msc Disk Defragmenter
diskmgmt.msc Disk Management
dcomcnfg Component Services
ddeshare DDE Shares
diskpart Disk Partition Manager
desk.cpl Display Properties
drwtsn32 Dr. Watson
directx.cpl Direct X Control Panel
dxdiag Direct X Troubleshooter
eudcedit Private Character Editor
eventvwr.msc Event Viewer ( Maintaining System Logs )
explorer Opens My Documents
freecell FreeCell Game
fsquirt Bluetooth Transfer Wizard
fsmgmt.msc Shared Folders
gpedit.msc Group Policy Editor
hdwwiz.cpl Add Hardware Wizard
iexpress Iexpress Wizard (Package creator)
iexplore Internet Explorer
inetcpl.cpl Internet Explorer Properties
ipconfig Windows IP Configuration
intl.cpl Regional Settings
joy.cpl Game Controllers
lusrmgr.msc Local Users and Groups
logoff Logs out current user
magnify Open Magnifier
makecab Cabinet Maker, file compressor.
msconfig Open System Configuration Utility
mshearts Opens Hearts game
msinfo32 System Information
mspaint Opens Mspaint
msmsgs Windows Messenger
mstsc Remote Desktop
mmsys.cpl Sounds and Audio
mqbkup Message Queue Backup\Restore Utility
notepad Opens a New Notepad
ntmsmgr.msc Removable Storage
ntmsoprq.msc Removable Storage Operator Requests
ncpa.cpl Network Connections
netsetup.cpl Network Setup Wizard
openfiles Used to view Files Opened Remotely via local share points
odbccp32.cpl ODBC Data Source Administrator 
proxycfg Proxy configuration
packager Object Packager
perfmon.msc Performance Monitor
powercfg.cpl Power Options
pentnt Checks for Floating point error in Intel based processors
qappsrv Displays the available application terminal servers on the network.
qprocess Displays information about processes
qwinsta Display information about Terminal Sessions
rcp Copies files to and from computer running the RCP service 
recover Recovers readable information from a bad or defective disk.
relog Used for Logging.
replace Replaces files
rexec Runs commands on remote hosts running the REXEC service
route Manipulates network routing tables
rsh Runs commands on remote hosts running the RSH service
rsm Manages media resources using Removable Storage
runas Allows a user to run specific tools and programs
with different permissions than the user’s current logon provides.
regedit Opens Registry Editor
rsop.msc Resultant Set of Policy
rwinsta Reset the session
rasphone Remote Access Phonebook
services.msc Used for Managing all the services on the computer.
sigverif File Signature Verification Tool
secpol.msc Local Security Settings
shutdown Shutdown Windows
syskey Windows System Security Tool
sc Communicates with the service controller and installed services.
schtasks Replaced with at.
setver Sets the version number that MS-DOS reports to a program
shadow Helps in remote connection & network used to
monitor another Terminal Services session
shrpubw Shared Folder Wizard
sndvol32 Volume Control
sysedit Windows.ini, system.ini, config.sys, autoexec.bat
sol Opens up Solitaire Game
timedate.cpl Date and Time Properties
telephon.cpl Phone and Modem Options
telnet Telnet Client
tftp Transfers files to and from a remote computer running the TFTP service
tlntadmn Telnet Administration. Used to start, stop, and send
msg to a terminal session connected to via telnet.
tscon Attaches a user session to a terminal session.
tsdiscon Disconnects a session from a terminal server.
tskill Ends a process. Even can terminate a process running on a remote session.
tourstart Windows XP Tour Wizard
tsshutdn shutdown in 60 sec
typeperf Very useful in login events. Used to monitor
Processor threads and writes into a specified log file.
userinit My Documents
verifier Driver Verifier Utility
winchat Microsoft Chat
winmine Minesweeper Game
wuaucpl.cpl Automatic Updates
wscui.cpl Security Center
wmplayer Windows Media Player
wmimgmt.msc Windows Management Infrastructure
w32tm Tool used to diagnose problems occurring with Windows Time.
wupdmgr Windows Update Launches
winver Displays Windows Version
write Opens WordPad
